README.md, before:

# Epic Games Achievements

[![Code Quality][codacy-image]][codacy]

This repository contains Python code to data-mine achievements on the Epic Games Store (EGS).

![Ranking of games sorted by number of achievers][img-cover]

## Requirements

-   Install the latest version of [Python 3.X][python-download-url].
-   Install the required packages:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

First, download the `sandboxId` associated with every `pageSlug`, via [`epic-games-ratings`][epic-games-ratings].
```bash
python download_store_products.py
python download_sandbox_ids.py
```
The output is stored in:
```
data/sandbox_ids.json
```
NB: to distinguish base editions of games from DLC, it is recommended (but not mandatory) to keep a copy of:
```
data/store_data_0.json
data/store_data_1.json
```

Then, to retrieve the achievements associated with every `sandboxId`, run:
```bash
python download_achievements.py
```

Finally, to export trimmed results to JSON and CSV, run:
```bash
python export_results.py
```

Alternatively:

-   Run [`epic_games_achievements.ipynb`][colab-notebook]
[![Open In Colab][colab-badge]][colab-notebook]

## Results

A ranking of games sorted by number of achievers is available [here][ranking-url].

Here is a description of the headers:
- `Game slug` is the ID of the game which appears in the Epic Games store URL,
- `#players (via EOS overlay)` is the number of players who have played with Epic Online Services (EOS) in the background,
- `#completionists` is the number of players who have acquired all the achievements for the game,
- `% of completionists` is the percentage of players who are completionists, also described as "Platinum" on consoles,
- `#players (estimate)` is an estimate of the number of players based on stats about completionists,
- `#achievements` is the number of achievements of the game,
- `Max % for an achievement` is the highest unlock rate among all the achievements of the game,
- `Total XP` is the total number of experience points (XP) provided by game achievements ; it is expected to be 1000 XP.


## References

- [`MixV2/EpicResearch`][egs-api-unofficial-doc]
- [`ToutinRoger/EpicGraphQL`][egs-api-graphql]
- [`woctezuma/epic-games-ratings`][epic-games-ratings]

<!-- Definitions -->

[img-cover]: <https://github.com/woctezuma/epic-games-achievements/wiki/img/cover.png>
[codacy]: <https://www.codacy.com/gh/woctezuma/epic-games-achievements>
[codacy-image]: <https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/e4e82c4abb6a41ef929600b668d0ebd6>
[python-download-url]: <https://www.python.org/downloads/>
[egs-api-unofficial-doc]: <https://github.com/MixV2/EpicResearch>
[egs-api-graphql]: <https://github.com/ToutinRoger/EpicGraphQL>
[epic-games-ratings]: <https://github.com/woctezuma/epic-games-ratings>
[colab-notebook]: <https://colab.research.google.com/github/woctezuma/epic-games-achievements/blob/colab/epic_games_achievements.ipynb>
[colab-badge]: <https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg>
[ranking-url]: <data/egs_achievements.csv>

Commit message:

README: add discussion with caveat

README.md, after:

# Epic Games Achievements

[![Code Quality][codacy-image]][codacy]

This repository contains Python code to data-mine achievements on the Epic Games Store (EGS).

![Ranking of games sorted by number of achievers][img-cover]

## Requirements

-   Install the latest version of [Python 3.X][python-download-url].
-   Install the required packages:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

First, download the `sandboxId` associated with every `pageSlug`, via [`epic-games-ratings`][epic-games-ratings].
```bash
python download_store_products.py
python download_sandbox_ids.py
```
The output is stored in:
```
data/sandbox_ids.json
```
NB: to distinguish base editions of games from DLC, it is recommended (but not mandatory) to keep a copy of:
```
data/store_data_0.json
data/store_data_1.json
```

Then, to retrieve the achievements associated with every `sandboxId`, run:
```bash
python download_achievements.py
```

Finally, to export trimmed results to JSON and CSV, run:
```bash
python export_results.py
```

Alternatively:

-   Run [`epic_games_achievements.ipynb`][colab-notebook]
[![Open In Colab][colab-badge]][colab-notebook]

## Results

A ranking of games sorted by number of achievers is available [here][ranking-url].

Here is a description of the headers:
- `Game slug` is the ID of the game which appears in the Epic Games store URL,
- `#players (via EOS overlay)` is the number of players who have played with Epic Online Services (EOS) in the background,
- `#completionists` is the number of players who have acquired all the achievements for the game,
- `% of completionists` is the percentage of players who are completionists, also described as "Platinum" on consoles,
- `#players (estimate)` is an estimate of the number of players based on stats about completionists,
- `#achievements` is the number of achievements of the game,
- `Max % for an achievement` is the highest unlock rate among all the achievements of the game,
- `Total XP` is the total number of experience points (XP) provided by game achievements ; it is expected to be 1000 XP.

### Discussion

1) some games did not have achievements on release day, or had issues with the EOS overlay,
so the number of players obtained via EOS should be considered as a lower-bound of the true number of players.

2) the percentage of completionists is rounded by Epic using one significant figure,
so our estimate of the number of players via Platinum stats should be used with caution.

3) the total XP is not equal to 1000 XP for Alan Wake Remastered due to the exceptional addition of DLC achievements,
for a total of 67 achievements (1500 XP) for the whole package, versus 50 achievements (1000 XP) for the base game.

4) there are bugs. For instance, Aeon Must Die has a negative number of completionists.
There are also cases for which achievements are planned, being implemented, or the studio tried but gave up, which
leads to weird situations.

## References

- [`MixV2/EpicResearch`][egs-api-unofficial-doc]
- [`ToutinRoger/EpicGraphQL`][egs-api-graphql]
- [`woctezuma/epic-games-ratings`][epic-games-ratings]

<!-- Definitions -->

[img-cover]: <https://github.com/woctezuma/epic-games-achievements/wiki/img/cover.png>
[codacy]: <https://www.codacy.com/gh/woctezuma/epic-games-achievements>
[codacy-image]: <https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/e4e82c4abb6a41ef929600b668d0ebd6>
[python-download-url]: <https://www.python.org/downloads/>
[egs-api-unofficial-doc]: <https://github.com/MixV2/EpicResearch>
[egs-api-graphql]: <https://github.com/ToutinRoger/EpicGraphQL>
[epic-games-ratings]: <https://github.com/woctezuma/epic-games-ratings>
[colab-notebook]: <https://colab.research.google.com/github/woctezuma/epic-games-achievements/blob/colab/epic_games_achievements.ipynb>
[colab-badge]: <https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg>
[ranking-url]: <data/egs_achievements.csv>
